>> Start by finding your
position that you will be
comfortable in for the next
10 minutes without moving
or shifting.
Observe the sensations
within the nose,
recognizing the dimension
of stillness within you.
Let go of control, of all doing.
Let the body take
the next breath.
Allow yourself to be breathed.
The sensations and
phenomena within the nose
are constantly changing.
But there is something
that is not changing,
something that is aware
of what is changing.
Who or what is
watching the breath?
Become aware of the awareness
that is observing the breath.
Always being present.
Always being equanimous
with whatever
is arising and passing away.
Awareness has no preferences.
It is simply aware.
When you have a
preference, judging
a sensation as good or
bad, it's just a thought,
a fluctuation of the mind.
When you react to
that preference,
you feed energy into the
pattern, reinforcing it.
Be equanimous.
To be equanimous means
you have no preferences.
You are resting as
awareness, aware
that you are not the mind.
Don't shift away
from the discomforts
or react to
unpleasant sensations.
And likewise, don't grasp
at pleasant sensations
if they arise.
If pleasant
sensations arise, you
can lose equanimity if you start
craving or try to hold them.
As you observe the
breath, find out who
or what is observing,
who or what is aware.
Stay with this inquiry
single pointedly,
in a way that is
unbroken, continuous.
The mind's attention
is fully on the breath.
And you are simply aware.
If the mind is
generating thoughts,
if other sensations are
happening within the body,
stay still.
Stay with the breath.
Don't get caught in other
thoughts and sensations.
Don't get hooked by them.
But don't push them away.
Stay single pointedly
with the breath.
Don't be rigid about it.
Be relaxed.
But don't be so relaxed that
you become dull or foggy.
Remain alert, surrendered,
but determined, and patient.
Be here now.
And be accepting of everything
arising in the mind and body.
There's no point in generating
inner resistance to your mind
and body.
No point in struggling
against yourself.
Let go of your controlling.
Don't try to make
anything happen.
Let yourself merge
into the breath.
Let you go.
Become so intimate
with the breath
that you let yourself
merge into it.
Notice the awareness that
is unmoving, unchanging.
It has no location, no quality.
Who is there in
that stillness, that
emptiness that is
everywhere and nowhere,
beyond the mind and senses?
Let go of all doing.
Be still and know.
Awareness can recognize itself.
Stillness can wake up.
Surrender to
silence, to stillness
without reacting,
without preferences,
without identifying with
thought or pushing away thought.
Be like a candle
burning itself up.
Let you go.